Lib Init (#1)
infinum/eightshift-blocks: README.md

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/infinum/eightshift-blocks.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-blocks)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/create-wp-theme.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-wp-theme)
[![GitHub tag](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/infinum/eightshift-blocks.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-blocks)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/infinum/eightshift-blocks.svg?style=for-the-badge&label=Stars)](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-blocks/)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/infinum/eightshift-blocks.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-blocks)

# Eightshift Block

This repository contains all the tools you need to start building a modern [Gutenberg dynamic blocks](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/tutorials/block-tutorial/creating-dynamic-blocks/), using all the latest front end development tools with simple folder structure and way to register blocks with ease.

> For detail implementation and in action view check [WordPress Boilerplate internal repo](https://github.com/infinum/wp-boilerplate-iternal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed implementation and in action view check the [WordPress Boilerplate internal repo](https://github.com/infinum/wp-boilerplate-iternal).
```

## :rocket: Installation
This repository is also added to the [Packagist repos](https://packagist.org/packages/infinum/eightshift-blocks), and it should be installed in your project via Composer.

```php
composer require infinum/eightshift-blocks
```

## :school_satchel: Requirements

1. Webpack build tool for your Editor and Frontend scripts and styles.
2. Project setup that supports OOP way of coding.

## :mortar_board: Setup Blocks

> To be able to use blocks all you need to do is extend class-blocks.php abstract class and call it in your project. This method already has `add_action` for blocks registration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use blocks, all you need is to extend `Blocks` abstract class found in `class-blocks.php` and instantiate it in your project. This class already has `add_action` hook for blocks registration.
```

> The best way would be to create a new class in your project and extend `class-blocks.php`.

Reviewer: This sentence isn't needed because you already said that in the previous sentence

Author: 👍

## :mortar_board: Setup Enqueue

> To be able to use blocks, you also need to enqueue style and scripts in your project. Gutenberg uses 2 new hooks for assets registration: `enqueue_block_editor_assets` and `enqueue_block_assets`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for your blocks to function properly, you'll also need to enqueue style and scripts in your project. Gutenberg editor uses two new hooks for assets registration: `enqueue_block_editor_assets` and `enqueue_block_assets`.
```

> `Class-enqueue.php` already incorporates all the registration hooks that you would need. All you need to provide are three methods in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Enqueue` abstract class located in `class-enqueue.php` file already contains all the registration hooks that you need. All you need to provide are four enqueue methods for the hooks.
```

It says three originally, but there are four distinct methods in that file

```php
add_action( 'enqueue_block_editor_assets', [ $this, 'enqueue_block_editor_script' ] );
add_action( 'enqueue_block_editor_assets', [ $this, 'enqueue_block_editor_style' ], 50 );
add_action( 'enqueue_block_assets', [ $this, 'enqueue_block_style' ], 50 );
add_action( 'wp_enqueue_scripts', [ $this, 'enqueue_block_script' ] );
```

Is this a typo or did I misunderstood something?

Author: typo 👍

> The best way would be to create a new class in your project and extend `class-enqueue.php`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should create a new class in your project and extend the abstract `Enqueue` class from the library.
```

> Keep in mind that `get_project_manifest` methods expect manifest.json file form webpack build. If your project doesn't use it, you can check [this lib](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webpack-manifest-plugin) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that `get_project_manifest` method expects a `manifest.json` file form webpack build. If your project doesn't use it, you can check [this lib](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webpack-manifest-plugin) for more details.
```

```php
  /**
   * Get project name used in enqueue methods for scripts and styles.
   *
   * @return string
   *
   * @since 1.0.0
   */
  protected function get_project_name() : string {

>     return 'theme_name';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return 'project_name';
```

  }
```

```php
  /**
   * Get project version used in enqueue methods for scripts and styles.
   *
   * @return string
   *
   * @since 1.0.0
   */
  protected function get_project_version() : string {

>     return 'theme_version';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return 'project_version';
```

  }
```

```php
  /**
   * Method to provide projects manifest array.
   * Using this manifest you are able to provide project specific implementation of assets locations.
   *
   * @return array
   *
   * @since 1.0.0
   */
  public function get_project_manifest() : array {

>     return <Manifest data>;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return [ Manifest data ];
```

Maybe this will better convey that it's an array of data

  }
```

## :rocket: Folder structure
Your folder structure should like this:
- src
  - blocks
    - assets
    - class-blocks.php
    - class-enqueue.php
    - manifest.json
    - custom
      - block-name
        - block-name.js
        - block-name.php
        - block-name-editor.scss
        - block-name-style.scss

>         - manifest.json

Reviewer: Maybe a nicer view would be 

```bash
|____ src
| |____blocks
| | |____assets
| | |____class-blocks.php
| | |____class-enqueue.php
| | |____manifest.json
| | |____custom
| | | |____block-name
| | | | |____block-name.js
| | | | |____block-name.php
| | | | |____block-name-editor.scss
| | | | |____block-name-style.scss
| | | | |____manifest.json
```

?

Author: 👍

### blocks
This folder contains all Gutenberg blocks defined in your project.

### assets
This folder contains all additional javascript and style functionality for the block that you only need to use on the frontend and editor.

### class-blocks.php

> This class is used to extend Eightshift Blocks abstract class-blocks.php functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class is used to extend Eightshift `Blocks` abstract class functionality.
```

### class-enqueue.php

> This class is used to extend Eightshift Enqueue abstract class-enqueue.php functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class is used to extend Eightshift `Enqueue` abstract class functionality.
```

### manifest.json

> This file contains some global settings for the project. It must contain `namespace` and `background` key; everything else is optional. You can store data here that you are going to share across toolbars, components, blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains some global settings for the project. It must contain `namespace` and `background` keys. Everything else is optional. You can store data here that you intend to share across toolbars, components, blocks.
```

Example:
```json
{
  "namespace": "academy",
  "background": "#52368C",
}
```

### custom

> This folder contains all Custom Gutenberg blocks defined and used in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This folder contains all custom Gutenberg blocks defined and used in your project.
```

> Each block must follow a strict naming convention to be able to use all functionality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each block must follow a strict naming convention in order to use all the functionality:
```

All block are automatically registered in the JS and PHP part of the application if you follow this naming convention.

Block Example:
- heading
  - heading.js
  - heading.php
  - heading-editor.scss
  - heading-style.scss
  - manifest.json

> 

Reviewer: ```bash
|____heading
| |____heading.js
| |____heading.php
| |____heading-editor.scss
| |____heading-style.scss
| |____manifest.json
```

Like the above suggestion. A `tree` view 🙂

Author: 👍

### block-name.js

> This file is `edit` callback component used in WordPress `registerBlockType` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file is the `edit` callback component used in WordPress `registerBlockType` method.
```

> We are not using `save` callback component because this lib is used to create dynamic blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are not using the `save` callback component because this lib is used to create dynamic blocks.
```

### block-name.php

> This file contains frontend part of the block used in your theme when the page reloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains the frontend part of the block used in your project when the page reloads.
```

### block-name-editor.php

> This file contains only editor styles for the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file only contains the editor styles for the block.
```

### block-name-style.php

> This file contains editor and frontend styles for the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains the editor and the frontend styles for the block.
```

### manifest.json
This file contains all the configuration required for a block to work.

> This configuration is used in WordPress `registerBlockType` method to be able to register block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's used in WordPress `registerBlockType` method to register a block.
```

Example:
```json
{
  "blockName": "heading",
  "title": "Heading",
  "description" : "Heading block with custom settings.",
  "category": "common",
  "icon": {
    "src": "heading"
  },
  "keywords": [
    "Header",
    "Title"
  ],
  "attributes": {
    "content": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "level": {
      "type": "number",
      "default": 2
    },
    "styleAlign": {
      "type": "string",
      "default": "left"
    },
    "styleSize": {
      "type": "string",
      "default": "huge"
    }
  }
}
```

> Most of the keys are the same as `registerBlockType` method that you can find in [WordPress Handbook](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/developers/block-api/block-registration/), But we also have some custom stuff here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the keys are the same as `registerBlockType` method that you can find in [WordPress Handbook](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/developers/block-api/block-registration/), but we also have some custom attributes here:
```

#### attributes

> Attributes is an object of attributes that you define here and setup default values. These attributes are then provided for you in the editor as props, and the PHP view part as a `$attributes` variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attributes key is an object of attributes that you define and set up default values. These attributes are then provided for you in the editor as props, and the PHP view part as an `$attributes` variable.
```

> We are using the same structure as [Gutenberg documentation](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/developers/block-api/block-attributes/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are using the same structure as described in [Gutenberg documentation](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/developers/block-api/block-attributes/).
```

#### hasInnerBlocks

> default: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`default: false`
```

> If the hasInnerBlocks key is set to true blocks, save method for inner blocks will be used. This method is used if the block has InnerBlocks. In PHP you now have `$inner_block_content` variable available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `hasInnerBlocks` key is set to true, blocks `save` method for inner blocks will be used. This method is used if the block has `InnerBlocks`. In PHP you now have `$inner_block_content` variable available.
```

```js
  save = () => createElement(InnerBlocks.Content);
```

## :mailbox: Who do I talk to?

For questions talk to:

* [ivan.ruzevic@infinum.hr](ivan.ruzevic@infinum.hr)
* [denis.zoljom@infinum.hr](denis.zoljom@infinum.hr)
* [ivan.grginov@infinum.hr](ivan.grginov@infinum.hr)
* [team@eightshift.com](team@eightshift.com)

Eightshift Blocks is maintained and sponsored by Eightshift and Infinum.

## :scroll: License

> Infinum WordPress Boilerplate is Copyright ©2018 Infinum. It is free software, and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the LICENSE file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infinum WordPress Boilerplate is Copyright ©2019 Infinum. It is free software, and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the LICENSE file.
```
